even though only 1% of the original pine
forest remains writer Jim Crumley can
still feel humbled in its presence pine
woods are I mean to my way of thinking
are completely different from any other
kind of wood especially big pine woods
like you get around the Cairngorms we
usually do get the chance to you know go
for a long walk in trees and there is a
sense of the beginning of as you enter
the pine wood that it sort of seems to
me walk more slowly
you walk softer look at where you are
and take notice
[Music]
sheltered in the woods from the fickle
weather Jim can easily lose sense of
time under a tree like this he had his
first encounter with one of the rarest
and shyest creatures of the pine forest
I was mine just on the ground and I
probably hadn't been in a deep sleep
that having been dozing and there was a
Scaparrotti alien making this
preposterous noise it just started to
bitterly parade up and down and his
strange and popping noises started it
was extraordinary to encounter for the
first time in such a situation
kappa Cayley or capers are only found in
pine forests where they feed on the pine
needles and shoots it's in April when
the male's head towards a special place
in the forest known as a lek the North's
word for dance
I kind of followed as best I could
crawling on my stomach and got to the
edge of the this little clearing and
there were three or four others here you
can interest big black fan thing it's
like a black sunrise it's one of those
easterly things in nature the object is
a shoe size obvious is to attract the
females and that whole thing that you
know the joy of discovery thing is
absolutely for me underpins you know
everything they're doing natural it was
a rare moment indeed there is so little
native forests there are fewer than
2,000 Kappa Kaylee left
you